# Todoish

A to-do list app.

## Functionalities

- Users can create tasks in their to-do list.
- Each task belongs to a project and has a due date (date and time).
- Users will have at least one project called "Inbox", and as many projects as they want.

## Technical Details

The app was built as a Single Page App (SPA) that fulfils these guidelines:

- It has a HTML, CSS and vanilla JavaScript frontend with our own Rails API as backend.
- All interactions between the client and the server should be handled asynchronously (AJAX).
- It uses Rails API and a form generated by the client to create a resource and render the response without a page refresh.
- No user authentiation with passwords.

In addition, Todoish:

- uses Bootstrap for its formatting
- allow users switching without page refresh

## The biggest takeaways

In cloning Todoist, an established app, we have learnt much more about how much work it goes into building something that seems as simple as a to-do list.

- How to structure the API
- What are the things that users can or cannot do, intuitively
- Where the forms should go
- How to share the responsibilities between front and backend between two people
- Using git branches to collaborate

## Future Plans

Todoish is at MVP stage with limited features. There are no plans to expand new features.

## Authors and acknowledgment

The authors are Sam Ghoreshi and JiaXuan Hon from Inglorious Bashterds of Flatiron School in London. This app was built specifically as a project for Module 3 at Flatiron School within 4 days. We acknowledge the help of all Technical Coaches at Flatiron School especially Nico, Guy, Mani and Gabriel, and the entire Inglorious Bashterds (London, 2019).
